## Code 201 - Week One - Day One Notes -

### How the web works:

A basic overview of how the web works is a client (your computer) connects to a server (the website). From there the client sends requests to the server, and the server responds with the answers or webpages.

```In addition to the client and the server, we also need to say hello to:

* Your internet connection: Allows you to send and receive data on the web. It's basically like the street between your house and the shop.

* TCP/IP: Transmission Control Protocol and Internet Protocol are communication protocols that define how data should travel across the internet. This is like the transport mechanisms that let you place an order, go to the shop, and buy your goods. In our example, this is like a car or a bike (or however else you might get around).

* DNS: Domain Name System is like an address book for websites. When you type a web address in your browser, the browser looks at the DNS to find the website's IP address before it can retrieve the website. The browser needs to find out which server the website lives on, so it can send HTTP messages to the right place (see below). This is like looking up the address of the shop so you can access it.

* HTTP: Hypertext Transfer Protocol is an application protocol that defines a language for clients and servers to speak to each other. This is like the language you use to order your goods.

* Component files: A website is made up of many different files, which are like the different parts of the goods you buy from the shop. These files come in two main types:
    * Code files: Websites are built primarily from HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, though you'll meet other technologies a bit later.
    * Assets: This is a collective name for all the other stuff that makes up a website, such as images, music, video, Word documents, and PDFs.
```
[The information above came from MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/How_the_Web_works)

### Website Design and Process:

Steps to website design:
1. Planning -
    * What is your website about?
    * What information are you presenting on the subject?
    * What does your website look like?

2. Sketching out your design -
This can be done in a couple different ways: Either wireframming through a program or actually sketching the design on a sheet of paper. Be creative!

3. Theme colors -
Choosing theme colors is the base of any good design, having a pallet of colors can really make or break the theme of the webpage!

4. Images -
Having images to use for your design integration is a great way to improve the look and feel of a website. Just make sure to have the rights to the image before using it!

5. Font -
Choosing the right font for a website is very important. [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) is a great resource!

## Basics of the web:

1. HTTP is short for HyperText Transfer Protocol and when a user connects to a webpage, the user (client) sends a GET request to the webpage (server)
2. After the GET request the browser sends raw bytes of data to the client. This comes in the form of HTML, CSS, JS and other languages. All of these languages come together to make a webpage.
3. Images make up important elements to a webpage. Try to use open-source, copyright-free materials.
4. Creating a string or number variable in JavaScript -
```js
var x = 5;
var y = 'string';
```
5. A variable is a way to define certain strings, numbers, or other attributes in JavaScript. 

## Introduction to HTML:

1. An HTML attribute is a way to provide information about HTML elements. Ex:
```HTML
<a href="your link"> <!-- HREF is an attribute -->
```
2. The anatomy of an HTML element:
    * Angle brackets <>
    * Names
    * Attributes
    * Attribute values
    * Default Values
3. The difference between ```<article>``` and ```<section>``` element tags:
    * Article specifies independent contained content.
    * Section defines a section within the HTML document.
4. A typical HTML Web Document:
```HTML
<!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <meta charset="utf-8">
            <span style="color:pink">
            <title>Ethan's Amazing Website</title>
            </span>
        </head>
        <body>
            <h2 id="welcome" name="welcome">Welcome to my amazing website</h2>
            <ul>
                <li>Thanks for visiting</li>
            </ul>
        </body> 
    </html>
```
5. How does metadata influence SEO (Search engine optimization):
    * SEO is influenced by metadata because it is written in the search engines language. More specifically metadata is read by a search engine when a page comes up in a users search results.

6. The ```<meta>``` tag always goes in the ```<head>``` element. It is used to specify character set, page desc., keywords, author of the document and viewport settings.

## Misc:

### Steps to start designing a website:

1. The first step to designing a website is having a solid plan. This could be an outline of what you (or your client or company) wants.
2. The most important question to answer when designing a website is: Why (and how). Why is the user going to do X and how will they get Y.
    * Additionally it is improtant to answer how you want to reach those goals.

### Semantics:

1. Using ```<h1>``` over ```<span>``` to display a top level heading: ```<h1>``` is used to display the top level heading because it has more versatility and can be easily modified compared to the ```<span>``` tag.
2. It defines what the purpose of the code is rather than just what it looks like.

### What is JavaScript?

1. 2 Things that require JS are: adding interactive behavior to web pages and building web servers.
2. You can add JS to an HTML document through the ```<script>``` tag.


## Things I want to know more about:

1. I want to learn more about database management through programming languages such as PHP and SQL and how this integrates into HTML and JS.
2. I am currently learning, and want to learn more, about non-web development languages such as C# and Python.
3. I want to learn more about backend development. 





